What I wanted/planned
I wanted to make a game where I could hit multiple targets as well as be able to shoot multiple projectiles. I also wanted the multiple targets to be randomly generated every time the game ran so that the user would have “a different experience every time”. I wanted the user to have to use sliders for power and angle instead of having a textbox to enter values because I also wanted the game to be timed and there wouldn’t be enough time to calculate on their own. The player would have a very short, limited about of time to beat the game and become the true winner. I also wanted the projectile to be an image instead of just a drawing. 
I achieved this best by using the code from the lwalen group from last semester that you gave me. It wasn’t very easy when I was trying to do it with my groups old code. However, using my groups old code helped me understand how projectile, targets, and math of the game worked. In the end using the lwalen group code was really only for being able to have multiple targets and sliders. The rest was done and altered by me.
What I changed
I changed the multiple targets from being one image to being multiple images
Multiple images generate randomly every time the targets are generated
Targets generate at the beginning of each new game
Changed the projectile objects from being drawings to being objects
Objects are images, pokeballs!
Changed the arraylist for storing the pokeballs to a vector
Changed the drawing of each pokeball from
		for (Pokeball p : projectiles) {
p.draw(g);
		}
	to
	// Draw projectiles
		for (int i = 0; i < projectiles.size(); i++) {
			projectiles.get(i).draw(g);
		}

Since they were objects and not just drawing a circle
Got rid of generate targets and clear targets button
Implemented a timer in the game, 30 seconds
Created a button that starts the timer
The launch button will NOT work until the timer starts
This keeps players from cheating
Added splash screen that disappears when the game shows up
In order to have the pokeball and pokemon show up in the game, I had to pass through the classes
Had a specific dialogue show up for every kind of winning situation
This was done by having the code check the current game state as well as the current number of hit pokemon and if the time was up or not
if the player beat the game within the time limit then the dialogue pops up and  the timer stops
if the game ends before the player can get all the pokemon, then the dialogue shows up for the current winning rank and they are able to play the game over
What I would've done if I had more time
I would’ve cleaned up the code more 
I would’ve tried to make a splash screen so that the image would show up with a transparent background
Had a reset button
Figure out how to generate and clear pokemon without the game state changing to losing every time (thats why I got rid of it)
What I learned 
Reusing code helps when you are trying to make something and you don’t have a lot of time, this way you don’t have to totally start  from scratch and we at least have something to base things on
Reusing code can be just as difficult as starting from scratch, because you have to implement what you want without breaking what is already there
How to use vectors and objects when displaying images
