This group kept it simple. 

There is a Ball class which contains the methods for the Ball in the game. It calculates the position of the ball as it rolls down the slope as well as create and update the size of the ball as it gets smaller. It also makes it possible for the ball to roll down the hill and explode when it is shot.

The Canon class creates the Canon object. It contains what angle the canon is currently pointing at, and gets and sets it when it changes and needs to update. It also tells the game what angle dash to draw, so the user can see where it will be shooting.

The Cake class creates the Cake object. It holds the position of the Cake as well as a boolean to tell the game whether or not the cake is smashed, and holds the image that makes the cake say "Help me!" when the ball gets closer and closer to it. It checks to see if the Cake and Ball's position have intersected to determine if the cake is smashed, and it checks the Ball's position to determine when the Cake should start panicking. It also has a restart function.

The Bullet class creates the Bullet that shoots out of the canon. It keeps track of the position of the bullet in the game, the velocity of the bullet, and the angle at which is shot at and changes. It also has a Gravity constant for use in calculating it's trajectory and velocity over time.  It has a method that sets the initial angle and velocity. Another method keeps track of the bullet's position in the game. It also has a boolean method that checks to see if and when the bullet comes in contact with the Ball.

The ControlPanel class creates the Control Panel for the game, where to user is able to use a specific button for shooting, has a slider for the angle at which to shoot at and has the restrictions on the minimum and maximum values of the angle.

The AnglePanel is simply a Label that keeps track of the current Angle in the game.

All of the above classes are part of the SaveTheCake class, which creates the GUI for the game. It also keeps track of the reduced size of the ball. It creates the Ball object, the Canon object, the Bullet object(s), the Cake object. It makes the background image in the game and also has an option Pane for restarting the game. It then has a method that gets all the objects, another method for restarting the game, and another method that constantly checks to see whether the game is over or not, wherin it checks to see what position all the objects are at, the status of the ball, and the status of the cake. When the game is done, it makes it possible for the game to restart.

Finally, the SaveTheCake class is called in the Game class, where it  creates the Game, the menuFile, and runs the game.
